# Granttpy

## When you want to make a gantt chart look nice for a grant or whatever

Right now: open python in this directory, make sure you have matplotlib installed, and run `ex.py` for an example.

## Basic instructions

Making a gantt chart is as easy as making different `GanttElement`s, the parent class for all the different things on the chart. Type `help(GanttElement)` to see the fields for the constructor: most of them should be self-explanatory, but here are a few notes on the more cryptic fields.

- `zorder_delta`: how much precedent the element should have when displaying on top of (or behind) other objects
- `level_increment`: The chart is generated by starting from the top and moving down. Every time that an element with a nonzero increment is added, the following elements are below it vertically. If you have two elements overlapping vertically, try increasing the `level_increment` of one.
- `textalignment`: takes `left`, `right`, or `center`.
- Any `color`s (i.e., `color` or `textcolor`) take in any argument that MPL would (e.g., `k` for black or `#FF0000` for red, etc).

### `GanttSpan`

A `GanttSpan` just spans an amount of time, generally acting as a divider between two vertically adjacent sections. It has a start and end date as well as an adjustable edge height for the prongs on the sides.

### `GanttPeriod`

A `GanttPeriod` also spans an amount of time, but acts more as a time period that one might work on a task. These are represented by thicker lines; therefore, you may be interested in changing `lw`, the linewidth of the element.

### `GanttEvent`

A `GanttEvent` is a point in time that something happens with no duration---think milestone or deadline. Along with choosing the `date` of the deadline, you can customize the `marker` and its `markersize` (which will need to be done based on the aspect ratio and scaling of the figure).

## Defaults

There are several defaults that you can customize using `gantt.set_X`, where `X` is the option.

- `marker`: default marker for `GanttEvent` elements
- `markersize`: default markersize for `GanttEvent` elements
- `linewidth`: default linewidth for `GanttPeriod` elements
- `textcolor`: default textcolor for all elements
- `span_edge_height`: default height of the edge brackets for `GanttSpan` elements
- `luminance_threshold`: the threshold for automatically switching between white and black text in `GanttPeriod` elements based on their color.
